When we’re together
with a large group of Jehovah’s people
in the ministry
and at our meetings and assemblies,
we really feel Jehovah’s blessing, don’t we?
But what if we’re isolated?
What if we’re facing persecution?
This is what Alphonse Takla
experienced some years ago in Egypt.
Let’s see how Jehovah proved to be with him.
All was dark;
everything was pitch-black dark.
Egypt was at war with Israel,
and they were arresting the brothers,
charging us of practicing illegal activities
as a banned organization.
On that night, we were being transferred
to the concentration camp.
We couldn’t see much.
“What’s going on there?
What’s this place look like? Where is it?”
The officer got two soldiers to escort us
to our cell where the brothers were.
We knew that when people
are taken to the concentration camp,
they spend years
and some of them never return back.
When I was, you know, a teenager,
I liked the characters in the Bible,
like Abraham,
Daniel,
Moses.
I thought that they were
champions of true worship.
At some stage, I felt jealous of them.
They had this huge relationship with God,
so I’d like to be part of that.
I continued to read the Bible
to get closer to God.
I knew that Jehovah would look after me;
he would not abandon his servant.
So we tried to encourage them:
“Brothers, keep in mind
that we’re here because we worship Jehovah.”
We sat together to discuss, you know,
what we were going to do
to keep spiritually strong.
So we thought that we needed to pray.
We picked out a scripture every day,
like a daily text,
and then after that, recited scriptures.
One would handle
a talk from the memory of heart
and then an open
discussion of Bible questions.
At that stage,
we didn’t have a Bible with us.
The officers wanted us to renounce our faith,
so they told me to lay on the ground,
and there they started to beat me.
The whole camp was around,
and one of the prisoners fainted.
I started to pray to Jehovah:
“Jehovah, help me to be able to endure that!”
It was very severe pain.
And I felt his help
because after a few beatings,
my body felt numb.
I didn’t feel much more pain.
One of the prisoners said to me,
“If I get out of here alive,
“I’ll tell my children
that in the concentration camp,
“I saw the Christians that reminded me
of the first-century Christians
—that they were happy even to die
without renouncing their faith.”
One of the officers
—this nasty one
that used to beat us very, very severely—
came one day and said,
“We need two of you to come out
and write a report about what you believe.”
So we thought about it:
‘Is it wise to do that?
Or maybe they will use it against us.’
You know, we prayed to Jehovah
for help to make a decision here,
to guide us on what to do.
So in the end, we reached a point that,
well, we may get out; we may not.
So we might as well give them a witness.
I told the officer, “We need a Bible.”
And he said, “What for?”
I said to him, “Because we need
to quote from the Bible in this report.”
So he said,
“OK, do you have a Bible in the storeroom?”
I said, “Yes, I have a Bible.”
He said, “OK, go and get your Bible.”
I went to my bag and picked up the Bible.
So he picked up the Bible from my hand,
opened it randomly, and started to read.
“Numbers.”
He looked at me.
“Who wrote this book?”
I said to him, “Moses.”
“You’re a liar!” at the top of his voice.
So I kept quiet,
and he closed the book again
and opened it again.
“You’re a liar!”
again at the top of his voice.
I was racing in my mind
where it is written in the Bible
that Jehovah told Moses to write any of this.
He shut the book again,
and for a third time,
opened it again,
and he started to read in a loud voice.
So the officer looked at me
with a big surprise on his face.
After we wrote the report,
I asked him,
“Can we keep the Bible, please?”
He said, “OK, keep the Bible.”
For three months, nearly every day,
the officers came in and beat us
and expected us to compromise.
We never did that.
All I can say is that it was Jehovah’s hand.
Jehovah was helping us to endure
—to continue to do his will
by not compromising
because we belong to him
and we rely on him.
God will not abandon his servant.
Why was Alphonse thrown into prison?
It wasn’t because he refused to say
a simple greeting
to the president of his country.
No, that phrase was a political slogan.
Like many Jehovah’s Witnesses,
Alphonse was persecuted for his neutrality.